Components should not be vulnerable to intent redirection
Intent redirection vulnerabilities occur when an application publicly exposes a feature that uses an externally provided intent to start a new component. In that case, an application running on the same device as the affected one can launch the exposed, vulnerable component and provide it with a specially crafted intent. Depending on the application’s configuration and logic, this intent will be used in the context of the vulnerable application, which poses a security threat. What is the potential impact? An affected component that forwards a malicious externally provided intent does so using the vulnerable application’s context. In particular, the new component is created with the same permissions as the application and without limitations on what feature can be reached. Therefore, an attacker exploiting an intent redirection vulnerability could manage to access a private application’s components. Depending on the features privately exposed, this can lead to further exploitations, sensitive data disclosure, or even persistent code execution. Information disclosure An attacker can use the affected feature as a gateway to access other components of the vulnerable application, even if they are not exported. This includes features that handle sensitive information. Therefore, by crafting a malicious intent and submitting it to the vulnerable redirecting component, an attacker can retrieve most data exposed by private features. This affects the confidentiality of information that is not protected by an additional security mechanism, such as an encryption algorithm. Attack surface increase Because the attacker can access most components of the application, they can identify and exploit other vulnerabilities that would be present in them. The actual impact depends on the nested vulnerability. Exploitation probability depends on the in-depth security level of the application. Privilege escalation If the vulnerable application has privileges on the underlying devices, an attacker exploiting the redirection issue might take advantage of them.